1/5/12
I kept throwing more and more data onto the demo page and it kept working
perfectly. A few days ago, I put all the countries (~1000) onto the page. No
problem! 

I finally hit some kind of limit today. I generated a scaled-down overlay map
of the full world (5040x3024, 2MB) and used background-position to show only a
portion of it. The idea was to allow the full map to be panned. The 800x600 map
worked great, but this giant map ground Chrome to a standstill. 

The solution here is to use tiles. I can either roll my own tiling solution,
use the Google Maps system or find some third party library. I suspect that
building a panning, zooming, tiled map system is one of those things that seems
simple until you sit down and try to implement it.

GSV looks nice and simple:
http://mike.teczno.com/giant/pan/

I'm having a delightful time reconciling coordinates. I understand the GSV
coordinate system now, but the "PowersOfTwo" python library adds a ton of
padding to my original image. So until I understand that, it's hard to map
everything.

Looks like the larger dimension in the original image gets rounded up to the
next power of two (my image is 5040x3024, so 8192). It's then centered in an
8192x8192 square image. This results in a crazy amount of padding, but at least
it's predictable.

Now that zooming and panning are working, this is HOT!

Low-hanging fruit to pick:
x Generate a few more zoom levels (at least two)
x Add double-click to zoom
x Sort out the "pointer-events: none" business
x Support scroll wheel zooming.
x Make the map window bigger than 800x600.


More issues:
- Figure out why the SVG & PNG don't always stay synced.
- Make the "-" button zoom out from the center.
- Make the country name appear near the mouse cursor.
- Try out the double-slider idea.


12/30/11
Using an inline SVG element and a transparent PNG overlay, I was able to make a
nice slider demo of the Roman empire. This is really basic, but it's already
compelling and recognizably related to the end goal. I already feel like I'm
learning things from it, e.g. about how Rome expanded initially, and what some
of the territories were that came and went from their control. 117 A.D. seemed
to be the peak.

I was worried that the PNG on SVG system would be too slow, but this turned out
to be because I was using a PNG file 10x larger than it needed to be. Reducing
to an 800x600 PNG made everything fast again.

Next questions:
- Is it still fast w/ tiles (almost certainly yes)
- Can I add other nations to this demo?


12/26/11
Goal is to extract path information in a way that lets me play maps through
time.

This would look something like:

  "country name" -> [year as int] -> path

This will let me answer questions like the ones below.



12/23/11
I ordered 2500 SVG maps from worldhistorymaps.com.
CD didn't work on my old macbook, but i was able to use Raven's laptop to
transfer them via thumb drive.
out of the box, the maps render poorly in all browsers except Opera.
In Opera, it's impossible to zoom. And the features are tiny (Europe vs. world)

The problem is that they're using a clipping layer to impose water boundaries.
This is clever -- it lets them use much simpler polygons for each
country/nation and keep the water boundaries constant across time. They include
a PNG clipping layer and an SVG clipping layer. Only Opera lines these up
correctly. Every browser handles the SVG clipping fine, but they screw up the
SVG. Even Opera messes up the alignment when you zoom via the SVG file's
"zoomBox" directive.

I'm able to zoom nicely in Safari one I comment out the SVG clipping path (Wgeo.svg).

ImageMagick supports SVG, so rasterizing from the command line may be the best
option of all.


This brings up some questions in terms of how I store shapes. I'd assumed that
every country would include things like coastlines. There would be a feature in
the editor which would let you snap to coastlines, rivers, lakes, etc.
But maybe that's too expensive. Maybe it's better to have loose, simple shapes
and apply a filter later.

The SVG clipping layer is pretty large (1.1MB). A good approach might be to
serve up a tiled clipping layer, ala Google Maps. Then shapes could be
transmitted simply and the clipping could be done in-browser. worldhistorymaps
implements their clipping layer as a full image of the earth's water. But a
black/white mask would work better.

Questions:
- What is the overall size of the Roman Empire paths across all time?
- How much do paths change from year to year? How large is the avg. diff?
